[MUSIC]
As we've called out before, functions are
powerful because you can create your own.
You can use them to organize the code
in your scripts into logical blocks,
which makes the code you write
easier to use and reuse.
Check out this example.
This script uses the len function,
which returns the length of a string.
In this example the script then uses
that length to calculate a number,
which we're calling the lucky number here.
And finally, it prints a message
with the name and the number.
Each time you want to
perform the calculation,
we change the values of the variables and
write the formula.
Then, print a greeting
followed by the lucky number.
See how there are exactly
two lines that are the same,
in the first and second part of the code.
When you find code
duplication in your scripts,
it's a good idea to check if you can clean
things up a bit by using a function.
How about we rewrite this code creating a
function to group all the duplicated code
into just one line.
The updated script gives us the exact
same result as the original one, but
it looks a lot cleaner.
First, we've defined a function
called lucky number,
which carries out our calculation and
prints it for us.
Then we call the function twice,
once with each name.
Since we've grouped the calculation and
print statements into a function,
our code is not only easier to read but
it's also now reusable.
We can execute the code inside the lucky
number function as many times as we need
it, by just calling it
with a different name.
So we don't have to write it out and
again and again for each new name,
that makes sense?
Hopefully, these examples have helped
explain how functions are used and
defined.
And also demonstrated
how useful they can be.
Did you notice that we're feeding
information into a functions through their
parameters?
This is one of the many ways that
we can input data into our code.
The values for those parameters may come
from different places, like a file on
our computer or through a form on a
website, but that doesn't impact our code.
The result of the function
is still the same,
no matter where the parameters come from.
Functions are your friends.
They can help clean up your code and
do a math so you don't have to.
You'll be using them a lot both in this
course and in your programming life.
So get ready to get real
friendly with functions.